So now let's talk about the differences
of EBS volumes and EFS file systems.
So the EBS volumes, they're attached to one instance
at a time, except in the edge case
of using the multi attached feature
of the io1 and io2 types of volume,
but that is for very specific use cases.
EBS volumes are also locked at the AZ level,
so here is an example.
We have one EC2 in AZ 1
and we have one EBS volume attached to it
and it cannot be attached to an EC2 instance in AZ 2.
For the gp2 type of volume,
the IO will increase if the disc size increases,
and for the gp3 and IO1 type of volumes,
you can increase the IO independently from your disc size.
To migrate an EBS volume across AZ,
we need to take a snapshot,
so it will go into the EBS snapshots,
and then we can restore the snapshot into another AZ.
This is how we move from one AZ to the next.
Now, the EBS volumes backups, they will use IO,
and so you shouldn't run them while your application
is handling a lot of traffic
because that may impact the performance.
For your EC2 instances, the route EBS volumes
of your instances will get terminated by default
if the EC2 instance gets terminated,
but you can disable that behavior.
Now for EFS, it's a bit different.
So it's a network file system,
and the goal is really to attach it
to hundreds of instances across availability zone,
so we really see the distinction here.
So one with one EFS file system,
we can have different mount targets in different AZs,
and then multiple instances can share
that one file system together, .
So it's very helpful, for example, when you have WordPress
and it's only for Linux instances
because it is using the POSIX system.
The EFS has a higher price point than EBS,
but you can leverage storage tiers for cost savings.
So hopefully you understand now the difference between EFS
and EBS and for the instance store,
well it is physically attached to the EC2 instance,
and so therefore if you, you lose your EC2 instance,
you will lose the storage as well.
All right, that's it, I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.